# nf-core/pangenome: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. Most of the plots are taken from the MultiQC report, which summarises results at the end of the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

<!-- TODO nf-core: Write this documentation describing your workflow's output -->

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- [Input Check](#input-check)
  - [bgzip](#bgzip)
  - [samtools faidx](#samtools-faidx)
- [Community Detection](#community-detection)
  - [paf2net](#paf2net)
  - [net2communities](#net2communities)
  - [extract communities](#extract-communities)
- wfmash
  - wfmash map communities
  - wfmash map
  - wfmash align
- seqwish
- smoothxg
- gfaffix
- odgi
  - odgi build
  - odgi stats
  - odgi sort -> final ODGI
  - odgi unchop
  - odgi view -> final GFA
  - odgi viz
  - odgi layout
  - odgi draw
  - odgi squeeze
- vg
  - vg deconstruct
- [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results and QC from the whole pipeline -> final report(s)!
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

## Input Check

### bgzip

[bgzip](http://www.htslib.org/doc/bgzip.html) compresses a file into a series of small 'BGZF' blocks in a similar manner to, and compatible with, gzip. This allows indexes to be built against the compressed file and used to retrieve portions of the data without having to decompress the entire file.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `tabix_bgzip/`
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.gz`: The bgzip compressed input FASTA file.
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.community.[0-9]{1,}.fa.gz`: A community FASTA file. *Only appears when `--communities` is provided.*
</details>

### samtools faidx

[samtools faidx](http://www.htslib.org/doc/samtools-faidx.html) indexes or queries regions from a FASTA file.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `samtools_faidx/`
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.fai`: FASTA index of the file provided via `--input`.
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.gzi`: Compressed FASTA index of the file provided via `--input`.
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.community.[0-9]{1,}.fa.gz.fai`: FASTA index of a community FASTA file. *Only appears when `--communities` is provided.*
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.community.[0-9]{1,}.fa.gz.gzi`: Compressed FASTA index of a community FASTA file. *Only appears when `--communities` is provided.*
</details>

<!-- [MultiQC - TEST](images/pangenome_workflow.png) -->

## Community Detectionn

### paf2net

[paf2net](https://github.com/pangenome/pggb/blob/master/scripts/paf2net.py) is Python script that projects wfmash's PAF mappings (the implied overlap and containment graph) into an edge list, a list of edge weights, and an 'id to sequence name' map.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `paf2net/`
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.paf.vertices.id2name.txt`: TXT file with a mapping of vertex identifiers to sequence names. *Only appears when `--communities` is provided.*
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.paf.edges.weights.txt`: TXT file with the weights of the edges. *Only appears when `--communities` is provided.*
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.paf.edges.list.txt`: TXT file listing all edge connections. *Only appears when `--communities` is provided.*
</details>

### net2communities

[net2communities](https://github.com/pangenome/pggb/blob/master/scripts/net2communities.py) is a Python script that detects communities by applying the Leiden algorithm ([Trag et al., Nature 2019](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-019-41695-z)).

- `net2communities/`
  - `<INPUT_FASTA>.community.[0-9](1,).txt`: TXT file with the sequence names of the community. *Only appears when `--communities` is provided.*
</details>

### extract communities

### MultiQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
